Welcome back you wonderful God.
People in this video are going to polish up high slices because we are almost feature complete.
There's a couple of things we can add after that.
But before we get there we want to put some quality of life things in.
First I want music playing throughout the game and I want it playing no matter what scene we're in if
we add multiple levels or we have a victory screen or game over screen which if you're reading ahead
you know we're going to have let's have the music playing uninterrupted.
Second let's have a victory screen so if the player wins they can play again.
They can see they win.
They can play again.
Alisyn of game over screen we show why game over screen is important right now if I play high my sis.
And I pick up this briefcase and I walk over here I can be seen and I make a mistake.
That's oversuspicious.
I drop out of game because our script is set to quit the game.
That's kind of graceless Isn't it very abrupt.
Let's actually give a player notification the game's over.
Would you like to play again or would you like to quit.
Well let's start with music mogul a brand new scene and the root node is going to be an audio stream
player not only a string player to be not only a string player 3D.
Why.
Because audio stream was just going to play audio it doesn't matter where the the audio stream player
is located on the map.
It's just going to play it or his dream play to be in 3D have positional information.
So if I pick the two key player and the node is here.
My character is here God will figure out where the sound is in relation to my player and play it from
those speakers.
The same thing will happen with 3D.
Don't want that.
So let's pick all year string player.
OK let's pick some music.
Well we have some is going to sound effects music.
I'm going to drag stealth in the woods so g.g. to my stream there when here it just hit playing.
Yes very atmospheric.
OK.
Before going further let's set it to auto apply rename this node to bga music background music.
I call it music be doing music is oddly cryptic and save the scene and the scenes music done right.
So we now have a scene that has audio stream player that plays music automatically and does nothing
else.
How do we get that playing in the game and how do we make sure it keeps playing no matter what scene
we're in.
Well the solution here is autoloader going to make this a singleton.
A project settings and a go to autoloader.
Right now we've got a global script so right here global GDP is loaded as a singleton but we can load
a scene.
It doesn't have to be a script in fact the scene doesn't have to contain a script.
If we find our music scene so scenes music an ad that's.
When we play our game.
We have some very MS news and it a little bit loud but ildefonso.
Okay.
Music is done and excellent do a move this briefcase other way.
That's way too easy.
Let's move you to over here somewhere.
Let's move on and just drag you.
OK.
Next thing wanna do is make a game over scream.
So let's add a new scene and I'm gonna use a canvas item as my lair and that just tells it OK.
I'm just drawing on alair as a child of kansler.
I'm going to add centre contain whatever is in here will be centred as well as it can be on the screen
which is what I want.
I want me a menu to shop in the middle of the screen.
Let's anchor that as a full rect So it's going to anchor to all corners.
And let's put it on full rect itself.
So now the set extenet takes up the entire screen.
Whatever the child is will be sent.
And while we're at it in a renamed canvas layer 2 game over below the screen or right outside the container
is done.
Let's add in a menu only has a nine patch wrecked and are going to go into graphics interface kinji
and scroll down to get the metal panels.
I'm going to pick one of the metal panels.
I'm feeling like just the standard metal panel which has little screws in the corner.
You could also pick the plate that has no screws but I think these are screws and there it is and it's
way small.
That's fine.
Now get a rectangle and want to give it a size you have size us at zero.
Not a good size.
How do you feel about 400 by 300.
Pretty good.
However when I move on screen it comes back because I should set minimum size of 400 by 300 there.
And it sent it save the scene before I go any further.
All right.
It's blurry.
Someone give it some patch margins.
How do you feel about 12 pixels in each direction.
I feel pretty good about that so well because
we have some well maintained little screws in the corner and a nice panel.
So within this I'm going to add a V box container.
So the first I'll be at the top the next on the Neith.
Let's make this full rack.
So it takes up the entire position and let's put some margins in I'll say 20 on each side.
Nicked 20 from the right 20 from the top and negative 20 from the bottom.
Great.
We may end up making this a slightly different size but that's looking pretty good for now.
OK.
So we have a bunch of elements that right now don't do anything.
I'm also by the way going to align this to the centre.
Let's put a label as a child and in the tax right.
Game over.
And right now have tiny white font on grey and I've also put game over with raynham capital on the V.
Now let's fix that by loading the stylin slowly back up to centre container because that's the first
green node of the first container node.
So every child of that will inherit the thing.
Some go to theme load theme and there it is.
Okay better.
But now I have white on break and that's no good at all.
So one thing to do is go to a label and um override some of the settings.
Now it'll keep all the settings we don't overwrite.
So for instance if I go to custom colours and select a black font colour it's going to keep everything
else.
That's a good start.
I think it might actually change the font though.
So let's go to custom fonts and pick new dynamic font.
Now we click on the font first need to load the font in.
So let's go to font from data and load the graphics interface fonts on a pic Convector future.
Still can't see it because the settings have set size zero.
That's okay.
A strike 30.
That is pretty good.
Alright I want this sentence.
Just click on label right the top here says the line centre.
Good.
Now let's put a button.
It's when we go back to Velux container and add a new child which is going to be a button and that button
will go underneath.
And right now it's filling the space and I want to fill the space.
So let's go back to size flags.
Here we go.
Adam Scott until Phil but I am sick.
Expand search and be as big as it needs to be.
And inside I'm going to write this was going to be try again.
He could write restart do over whatever state was done and duplicate it which on the windows as control
d n and this button.
I'm jealous right.
Quit.
Let's rename these buttons.
Try again and quit.
OK.
Now these buttons are recycle themselves.
I really want that so let's give them a minimum size.
Try again under rect there is minimum size.
Say we think 125 looks pretty good by 30.
Awesome.
And I'm going to copy that down to quit so minimum size on quit.
125 by 30.
These two aren't centred which is a little annoying to fix that.
You have to do a little bit of work around under the box container and add a Santa container and it
will drag quit into it.
I will do the same thing try again.
So child said to contain I am a drag self-contained in there.
You notice that quit and try again.
Now switch places.
But I can drag them into the order I want.
Okay now I'm thinking that my nine patch rectangle is too big so let's change the size on that minimum
size has four hundred three hundred.
How about 300 by 250.
I feel a bit better about that how I feel about 250 but 250.
That's too small.
I get 3 out of my 300 is good enough for me.
Feel free to add a like let's give this a script out and save what we've got so far.
I'm going to close this is going to get in the way and I make a new script for game over screen and
I'm going to put this in the script folder.
As you might expect but I'm just going to call it game over.
OK.
Now let's connect.
I'll try again and quit buttons some of the kit.
Click on try and get a node on pressed the Connect for that to game over screen and quit gonna do the
exact same thing.
So what do we want to happen on trying impress.
I want to let's get these scenes.
Levels.
Well what to do with load level 1.
So what I want to do is I want to go get a tree change sequence and I'm sure a drag level one into here
and close the bracket and quit is going to get tree dropped quite like a test that I'm just going to
run this scene.
We're on the scene because right now this isn't connected to the rest of the game.
There's no way of getting to the scene.
So let's test it.
And news is already playing our press try again wearing game in the music hasn't missed a beat.
Mike was awesome.
Okay so now we have to do is connect this scene now.
We're running quit on end game an end game is actually in suspiciously to school Scripps and scroll
down to suspicion meet.
There it is.
Scroll down.
End Game right here.
So instead of get tree quit.
What I really want is that game over so I'm going to just drag it in here.
I could put this in global.
Honestly I don't really want to I'm going to make it nice and simple.
So change scene
and drag that in.
Okay let's see if that works.
It's gonna get myself into trouble.
I'm in trouble.
Restart of the game.
Let's see if quit works awesome.
Everything went great.
Which brings me to the challenge.
I'd like you to take what we've done and add a victory screen now as a quick hint.
We've done most of the work we need to do here.
You could just make a new inherited seeing some positive to see what you can do about the new victory
screen and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
And we're back.
Alright so I want to make a new inherited scenes when I get a scene.
New inherited and I need to pick my bases.
Where am I getting from.
I'm starting from Game over sorry and what I do it's good to leave you.
When I renamed this victory spring
and save this scene.
Now I just want change this label right so I'm going to go to note instead of game over and say mission
accomplished.
Or you win.
Actually mission accomplished way too big.
Go back to how it was a type of victory lap which I've put at random space into.
There is victory.
Are you good right.
You win.
Mission accomplished.
Number four is mission accomplished.
You might want to make this font smaller.
Try again and quit or actually find what I need.
OK.
And that's it.
All I need to do now is connect it.
And where does that happen.
That happens on exit detection.
So let's get the scripts and find it.
And instead of print you have a briefcase.
I actually get three dot change seen.
Let's go grab the scene do the victory.
There it is.
You might be wondering why though why am I now using string references when we set up a global.
It is to show you the multiple ways of doing this.
If you're somebody who really dislikes using string referencing you could put this in global and loaded
in that way.
Personally I don't mind string referencing.
And for me this is easier.
But now I've looked at both ways of doing this and this should be everything we need.
And that brings us to the end of the video in this video we looked at how confused are seen as a singleton
so it doesn't just have to be a script.
We can also use a scene with nodes that don't require any script and with polish up the game with the
game over screen and a victory screen.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.